Text 1
Unlike so-called basic emotions such as sadness, fear, and anger, guilt emerges a little later, in conjunction with a child’s growing grasp of social and moral norms. Children aren’t born knowing how to say “I’m sorry”; rather,they learn over time that such statements appease parents and friends-and their own consciences. This is why researchers generally regard so-called moral guilt, in the right amount, to be a good thing: A child who claims responsibility for knocking over a tower and tries to rebuild itis engaging in behavior that’s not only reparative but also prosocial.

In the popular imagination, of course,guilt stil ets a bad rap. it evokes Freud’ ideas and religious hang-ups. More important, guilt is deeply uncomfortable-it’s the emotional equivalent of wearing a jacket weighted with stones. Who would inflict it upon a child? Yet this understanding is outdated.“There has been a kind of revival or a rethinking about what guilt is and what role guilt can serve,” Vaish says,adding that this revival is part of a larger recognition that emotions aren’t binary-feelings that may be advantageous in one context may be harmful in another.Jjealousy and anger, for example, may have evolved to alert us to important inequalities. Too much happiness (think mania) can be destructive.

And guilt, by prompting us to think more deeply about our goodness,can encourage humans to atone for errors and fix relationships. Guilt, in other words,can help hold a cooperative species together. It is a kind of social glue.

Viewed in this light, guilt is an opportunity. Work by Tina Malti, a psychology professor at the University of Toronto,suggests that guilt may compensate for an emotional deficiency. In a number of studies, Malti and others have shown that guilt and sympathy (and its close cousin empathy) may represent diferent pathways to cooperation and sharing. Some kids who are low in sympathy may make up for that shortfll by experiencing more guilt,which can rein in their nastier impulses. And vice versa: High sympathy can substitute for low guilt.

In a 2014 study, for example, Malti and a colleague looked at 244 children, ages 4,8,and 12.Using caregiver assessments and the children’s self-observations, they rated each child’s overall sympathy level and his or her tendency to feel negative emotions (like guilt and sadness) after moral transgressions. Then the kids were handed stickers and chocolate coins,and given a chance to share them with an anonymous child. For the low-sympathy kids, how much they shared appeared to turn on how inclined they were to feel guilty. The guilt-prone ones shared more,even though they hadn’t magically become more sympathetic to the other child’s deprivation.

“That’s good news,” Malti says. “We can be prosocial because of our empathetic proclivity, or because we caused harm and we feel reret”

Text 2
Forests give us shade,quiet and one of the harder challenges in the fight against climate change.Even as we humans count on forests to soak up a good share of the carbon dioxide we produce,we are threatening their ability to do so.The climate change we are hastening could one day leave us with forests that emit more carbon than they absorb.

Thankfully, there is a way out of this trap-but it involves striking a subtle balance.Helping forests flourish as valuable “carbon sinks” long into the future may require reducing their capacity to sequester carbon now.California is leading the way, as it does on so many climate efforts, in figuring out the details.

The state’s proposed Forest Carbon Plan aims to double efforts to thin out young trees and clear brush in parts of the forest,including by controlled burning. This temporarily lowers carbon-carrying capacity.But the remaining trees draw a greater share of the available moisture,so they grow and thrive,restoring the forest’s capacity to pull carbon from the air. Healthy trees are also better able to fend off bark beetles. The landscape is rendered less combustible.Even in the event of a fire, fewer trees are consumed.

The need for such planning is increasingly urgent. Already, since 2010, drought and beetles have killed more than 100 million trees in California, most of them in 2016 alone, and wildfires have scorched hundreds of thousands of acres.

California’s plan envisions treating 35,000 acres of forest a year by 2020,and 60,000 by 2030-financed from the proceeds of the state’s emissions-permit auctions. That’s only a small share of the total acreage that could benefit,an estimated half a million acres in all, so it will be important to prioritize areas at greatest risk of fire or drought.

The strategy also aims to ensure that carbon in woody material removed from the forests is locked away in the form of solid lumber, burned as biofuel in vehicles that would otherwise run on fossil fuels, or used in compost or animal feed. New research on transportation biofuels is under way,and the state plans to encourage lumber production close to forest lands.In future the state proposes to take an inventory of its forests’ carbon-storing capacity every five years.

State governments are well accustomed to managing forests, including those owned by the U.S. Forest Service,but traditionally they’ve focused on wildlife, watersheds and opportunities for recreation.Only recently have they come to see the vital part forests will have to play in storing carbon. California’s plan, which is expected to be finalized by the governor early next year, should serve as a model.

Text 3
American farmers have been complaining of labor shortages for several years now.Given a multi-year decline in illegal immigration,and a similarly sustained pickup in the u.s. job market, the complaints are unlikely to stop without an overhaul of immigration rules for farm workers.

Efforts to create a more straightforward agricultural-workers visa that would enable foreign workers to stay longer in the U.S. and change jobs within the industry have so far failed in Congress.If this doesn’t change,American businesses, communities and consumers will be the losers.

Perhaps half of U.S. farm laborers are undocumented immigrants. As fewer such workers enter the U.S., the characteristics of the agricultural workforce are changing. Today’s farm laborers,while still predominantly born in Mexico, are more likely to be settled, rather than migrating,and more likely to be married than single.They are also aging. At the start of this century, about one-third of crop workers were over the age of 35. Now,more than half are. And crop picking is hard on older bodies.

One oft-debated cure for this labor shortage remains as implausible as it has been all along: Native U.S. workers won’t be returning to the farm.

In a study published in 2013,economist Michael Clemens analyzed 15 years of data on North Carolina’s farm-labor market and concluded, “There is virtually no supply of native manual farm laborers” in the state.This was true even in the depths of a severe recession.

Mechanization is not the answer either-not yet at least. Production of corn, cotton,rice,soybeans and wheat have been largely mechanized,but many high-value, labor-intensive crops,such as strawberries, need labor Even dairy farms, where robots currently do only a small share of milking,have a long way to go before they are automated.

As a result, farms have grown increasingly reliant on temporary guest workers using the H-2A visa to fill the gaps in the agricultural workforce. Starting around 2012, requests for the visas rose sharply; from 2011 to 2016 the number of visas issued more than doubled.

The H-2A visa has no numerical cap,unlike the H-2B visa for nonagricultural work,which is limited to 66,000 annually. Even so,employers frequently complain that they aren’t allotted all the workers they need. The process is cumbersome, expensive and unreliable.One survey found that bureaucratic delays led H-2A workers to arrive on the job an average of 22 days late.And the shortage is compounded by federal immigration raids, which remove some workers and drive others underground.

Petitioning each year for laborers-and hoping the government provides enough, and that they arrive on time-is no way to run a business, In a 2012 survey by the California Farm Bureau, 71 percent of tree-fruit growers and nearly 80 percent of raisin and berry growers said they were short of labor. Some western growers have responded by movingoperations to Mexico.Without reliable access to a reliable workforce, more growers will be tempted to move south.

According to a report by the Partnership for a New American Economy, Americans are consuming more fresh produce, which is good. But a rising share of it is grown elsewhere. In 1998-2000, 14.5 percent of the fruit Americans consumed was imported. Little more than a decade later, the share of imported fruit had increased to 25.8 percent. Rural U.S. communities that might have benefited didn’t.

In effect, the U.S. can import food or it can import the workers who pick it. The u.S.needs a simpler,streamlined,multi-year visa for agricultural workers, accompanied by measures to guard against exploitation and a viable path to U.S. residency for workers who meet the requirements. Otherwise growers will continue to struggle with shortages and uncertainty, and the country as a whole will lose out.

Text 4
Arnold Schwarzenegger, Dia Mirza and Adrian Grenier have a message for you: It’s easy to beat plastic. They’re part of a bunch of celebrities staring in a new video for World Environment Day-encouraging you,the consumer, to swap out your single-use Plastic staples to combat the plastic crisis.

If only I’d realized that we can buy our way out of the problem except we can’t.

The key messages that have been put together for World Environment Day do include a call for governments to enact legislation to curb single-us plastics. But the overarching message is directed at individuals: Lead with your wallets.

The problem of perpetuating this individualistic narrative is that it’s not going to get us very far and the plastics crisis we face is immense. Our oceans are blighted by the stuff,It’s in our drinking water (including bottled water), and we could even be breathing it in.

I’m not dismissing individual actions like ordering straw-free drinks at bars, or opting for a reusable water bottle over a cup that’s going in the trash as soon as you’ve used it.I can’t imagine not at least trying to minimize my own plastics footprint,whether it’s lugging home my newly-refilled gallon bottle of washing-up liquid every few months,or buying packaging-free food, clothing and toiletries where possible.

On their own, however,none of these things is enough.

Part of my worry about leaving it up to the individual is that we’re all just guessing at what’s going on out there-and that’s if we haven’t been scared off from doing anything to start with in the face of such a huge challenge. As consumers,we have little idea about how much plastic has been used and discarded along the supply chain, for example. It’s als hard to compare,say, going to a bulk store that sells plastic-free products but requires you to drive some distance versus a more lccal shop where you may end up taking home some packaged items.

There’s also a time and cost issue. Realistically,I’m not going to start making my own laundry detergents so I can avoid the plastic bottles they come in, and there can be extra costs associated with environmentally friendly products.

My biggest concern with leaving it up to the individual, however, is our limited sense of what needs to be achieved On their own, taking our own bags to the grocery store or quitting plastic straws,for example, will accomplish little and require very ittle of us. They could even be detrimental, satisfying a need to have “done our bit” without ever progressing onto bigger, bolder, more effective actions–a kind of “oral licnsing"that llays our concerns and stops us doing more and asking more of those in charge.

While the conversation around our environment and our responsibility toward it remains centered on shopping bags and straws, we’re ignoring the balance of power that implies that as “consumers"we must shop sustainably, rather than as “citizens” hold our governments and industries to account to push for real systemic change. Nowhere in World Environment Day 2018’s key messages is there anything about voting for environmentally progressive politicians, for example.Why not?

It’s important to acknowledge that the environment isn’t everyone’s priority-or even most people’s.We shouldn’t expect it to be .In her latest book, Why Could People Do Bad Environmental Things, Wellesley College professor Elizabeth R. De Sombre argue that the best way to collectively change the behavior of large numbers of people is for the change to be structural.

This might mean implementing policy such as a plastic tax that adds a cost to environmentally problematic action, or banning single-use plastics altogether. India has just announced it will” eliminate all single-use plastic in the country by 2022.” There are also incentive-based ways of making better environmental choices easier, such as ensuring recycling is at least as easy as trash disposal.

De Sombre isn’t saying people should stop caring about the environment. It’s just that individual actions are too slow, she says, for that to be only, or even primary, approach to changing widespread behavior.

None of this is about writing off the individual. It’s just about putting things into perspective.We don’t have time to wait. We need progressive policies that shape collective action (and rein in polluting business), alongside engaged citizens pushing for change. That’s not something we can buy.
