Text 1
Rats and other animals need to be highly at tuned to social signals from other so that can identify friends to cooperate with and enemies to avoid. To find out if this extends to non-living beings, Loleh Quimn at the Universiy of Califomia, San Dicgo, and her colleagues tested whether rats can detect social signals from robotic rats.

They housed eight adult rats with two types of robotic rat-one social and one asocial- for 5 our days.The robots rats were quite minimalist, resembling a chunkier version of a computer mouse with wheels-to move around and colorful markings.

During the experiment,the social robot rat followed the living rats around, played with the same toys, and opened caged doors to let trapped rats escape. Meanwhile, the asocial robot simply moved forwards and backwards and side to side

Next,the researchers trapped the robots in cages and gave the rats the opportunity to release them by pressing a lever.

Across 18 trials each, the living rats were 52 percent more likely on average to set the social robot free than the asocial one. This suggests that the rats perceived the social robot as a genuine social being, They may have bonded more with the social robot because it displayed behaviours like communal exploring and playing. This could lead to the rats better remembering having freed it earlier, and wanting the robot to retun the favour when they get trapped,says Quin

The readiness of the rats to befriend the social robot was surprising given if minimal design. The robot was the same size as a regular rat but resembled a simple plastic box on wheels.“Wwe’d assumed we’ d have to give it a moving head and tail, facial features, and put a scene on it to make it smell like a real rat, but that wasn’t necessar, says Janet Wiles at the University of Queensland in Australia,who helped with the research.

The finding shows how sensitive rats are to social cues,even when they com from basi robots. Similarly,children tend to treat robots as if they are fellow beings, even when they display only simple social signals.“We humans seem to be fascinated by robots, and it turms out other animals are too’ says Wiles.

Text 2
It is true that CEO pay has gone up-top ones may make 300 times the pay of typical workers on average, and since the mid-1970s CEO pay for large publicly traded American corporations has,by varying estimates, gone up by about 500%.The typical CEO of a top American corporation now makes about S18.9 million a year.

The best model for understanding the growth of CEO pay is that of limited CEO talent in a world where business opportunitis for the top fims are growing rapidly. The efforts of America’s highest-earming 1% have been one of the more dynamic elements of the global economy.I’s no popular to say, but one reason their pay has gone up so much is that CEOs realy have upped their game relative to many other workers in the U.S. economy.

Today’s CEO, at least for major American firms, must have many mere skill than simply being able to “rn the company” CEOs must have a good sense of financial markets and maybe even how the company should trade in them. They also need better publi relations skills than their predecessors, as the costs of even a minor slip up can be significant. Then there’s the fact that large American companies are much more globalized than ever before,with supply chains spread across a larger number of countries. To lead in that system requires knowledge that is fairly mind-boggling plus, virtually all major American companies are beyond this major CEOs still have to do all the day-to-day work they have always done.

The common idea that high CEO pay is mainly about ripping people off dosn’t explain history very well. By most measures, corporate governance has become a lot tighter and more rigorous since the 1970s. Yet it is principally during this period of stronger governance that CEO pay has been high and rising. That suggests it is in the broader corporate interest to recruit top candidates for increasingly tough jobs.

Furthermore, the highest CEO salaries are paid to outside candidates, not to the cozy insider picks,anotersin ha high ELo pa is no some ind f dprdationatt the expense of the rest of the company. And the stock market reacts positively when companies tie CEO pay to, say, stock prices, a sign that those practices build up corporate value not just for the CEO.

Text 3
Madrid was hailed as a public health guiding light last November when it rolled out ambitious restrictions on the most polluting cars. Seven months and one election day later, a new conservative city council suspended enforcement of the clean air zone, a first step toward its possible termination. Mayor José Luis Martínez-Almeida made opposition to the zone a centrepiece of his election campaign, despite its success in improving air quality. A judge has now overruled the city’s decision to stop levying fines, ordering them restored. But with legal battles ahead, the zone’s future looks uncertain at best.

Madrid’s back and forth on clean air is a pointed reminder of the limits to the patchwork, city-by-city approach that characterises efforts on air pollution across Europe, Britain very much included.

Among other weaknesses, the measures cities must employ when left to tackle dirty air on their own are politically controversial, and therefore vulnerable. That’s because they inevitably put the costs of cleaning the air on to individual drivers—who must pay fees or buy better vehicles—rather than on to the car manufacturers whose cheating is the real cause of our toxic pollution. It’s not hard to imagine a similar reversal happening in London. The new ultra-low emission zone (Ulez) is likely to be a big issue in next year’s mayoral election. And if Sadiq Khan wins and extends it to the North and South Circular roads in 2021 as he intends, it is sure to spark intense opposition from the far larger number of motorists who will then be affected.

It’s not that measures such as London’s Ulez are useless. Far from it. Local officials are using the levers that are available to them to safeguard residents’ health in the face of a serious threat. The zones do deliver some improvements to air quality, and the science tells us that means real health benefits.

But mayors and councilors can only do so much about a problem that is far bigger than any one city or town. They are acting because national governments—Britain’s and others across Europe—have failed to do so.

Restrictions that keep highly polluting cars out of certain areas—city centres, “school streets”, even individual roads—are a response to the absence of a larger effort to properly enforce existing regulations and require auto companies to bring their vehicles into compliance. Wales has introduced special low speed limits to minimise pollution. We’re doing everything but insist that manufacturers clean up their cars.

Text 4
Now that members of Generation Z are graduating college this spring the most commonly-accpted defintion says this generation was borm ater 199,give or take a year -the attention has been rising steadily in recent weeks. GenZs are about to hit the streets looking for work in a labor market that’s tighter than it’s been in decades. And employers are planning on hiring about 17 percent more new graduates for jobs in the U.S. this year than last, according to a survey conducted by the National Association of Colleges and Employers. Everybody wants to know how the people who will soon inhabit those empty office cubicles will differ from those who came before them.

If"entitled” is the most common adjective,fairly or not, applied to millennial (those born between 1981 and1995),the catchwords for Generation Z are practical and cautious. According to the career counselors and experts who study them, Generation Zs are clear-eyed, conomic pragmatists. Despite graduating into the best economy in the past 50 years, Gen Zs know what an economic train wreck looks like. They were impressionable kids during the crash of 2008, when many of their parents lost their jobs or their life savings or both. They aren’t interested in taking any chances. The booming conomy seems to have done litle to assuage this underlying generational sense of anxious urgency, especially for those who have college debt. College loan balances in the U.S. now stand at are cord S1.5 trillion, according to the Federal Reserve.

One survey from Accnture found that 8 percent of graduating seniors this year chose their major with a job in mind. In a 2019 survey of Univeriy of Georgia students, meanwhil,the career office found the most desirable trait in a future employer was the ability to offer secure employment (followed by professional development and training,and then inspiring purpose), Job security or stabiliy was the second most important career goal (work-life balance was number one),followed by a sense of being dedicated to a cause or to feel good about serving the greater good.
