Text 1
It is curious that Stephen Koziatek feels almost as though he has to justify his efforts to give his students a better future.

Mr. Koziatek is part of something pioneering. He is a teacher at a New Hampshire high school where learning is not something of books and tests and mechanical memorization, but practical. When did it become accepted wisdom that students should be able to name the 13th president of the United States but be utterly overwhelmed by a broken bike chain?

As Koziatek know, there is learning in just about everything. Nothing is necessarily gained by forcing students to learn geometry at a graffitied desk stuck with generations of discarded chewing gum. They can also learn geometry by assembling a bicycle.

But he’s also found a kind of insidious prejudice. Working with your hands is seen as almost a mark of inferiority. School in the ramit f cational education “hav that stereotype..ht s for kids who can’ t make it academically” he says.

On one hand, that viewpoint is a logical product of America’s evolution. Manufacturing is not the economic engine that it once was. The job security that the US economy once offered to high school graduates has largely evaporated. More education is the new principle. We want more for our kids, and rightfully so.

But the headlong push into bachelor’s degrees for all and the subtle devaluing of anything less–misses an important point: That’s not the only thing the American economy needs. Yes, a bachelor’s degree opens more doors. But even now, 54 percent of the jobs in the country are midleskill jobs, such as construction and highskill manfacturing. But only 44 percent of workers are adequately trained.

In other words, at a time when the working class has turned the country on its political head, frustrated that the opportunity that once defined America is vanishing, one obvious solution is staring us in the face. There is a gap in working-class jobs, but the workers who need those jobs most aren’t equipped to do them. Koziatek’s Manchester School of Technology High School is trying to fill that gap.

Koziatek’s school is a wake-up call. When education becomes one-size-fits-all it risks overlooking a nation’s diversity of gifts.

Text 2
While fossil fuels coal lia stleernte urgl/y sperent o the world’s energy supply, it’s clearer than ever that the future belongs to renewable sources such as wind and solar. The move to renewables is picking up momentum around the world: They now account for more than half of new power sources going on line.

Some growth stems from a commitment by governments and farsighted businesses to fund cleaner energy sources. But increasingly the story is about the plummeting prices of renewables, especially wind and solar. The cost of solar panels has dropped by 80 percent and the cost of wind turbines by close to one-third in the past eight years.

In many parts of the world renewable energy is already a principal energy source. In Scotland, for example, wind turbines provide enough electricity to power 95 percent of homes. Wile the rest of the world takes the lead, notably China and Europe, the United States is also seeing a remarkable shift. in March, for the first time, wind and solar power accounted for more than 10 percent of the power generated in the us, reported the US Energy Informatin Administration.

President Trump has underlined fossil fuels-especially coal-as the path to economic growth. In a recent speech in lowa, he dismissed wind power as an unreliale energy source. But that message did not play well with many in lowa, where wind turbines dot the fields and provide 36 percent of the state’s electricity eneration nd where tech giants like Microsoft are being attracted by the availability of clean energy to power their data centers.

The question “what happens when the wind doesn’ t blow or the sun doesn’ t shine?” has provided a quick put-down for skeptics. But a boost in h storage capcity of battere is aing their ability to keep power flowing around the clock more likely.

The advance is driven in part by vehicle manufacturers, who are placing big bets on battery-powered electric vehicles. Although electric cars are still a rarity on roads now, this massive investment could change the picture rapidly in coming years.

While there’s a long way to go, the trend lines for renewables are spiking. The pace of change in energy sources appears to be speeding up-perhaps just in time to have a meaningful effect in lowing climate change. What Washington does -or doesn’t do-to promote alternative energy may mean less and less at atime of gobal sit in thought.

Text 3
The power and ambition of the giants of the digital economy is astonishing–Amazon has just announced the purchase of the upmarket grocery chain Whole Foods for s13.5bn, but two years ago Facebook paid even more than that to acquire the WhatsApp messaging service, which doesn’t have any physical product at all. What WhatsApp offered Facebook was an intricate and finely detailed web of its users’ friendships and social lives.

Facebook promised the uropean commission then that it would not link phone numbers to Facebook identities, but it broke the promise almost as soon as the deal went through. Even without knowing what was in the messages, the knowledge of who sent them and to whom was enormously revealing and still could be. What political journalist, what party whip, would not want to know the makeup of the WhatsApp groups in which Theresa May’s enemies are currently plotting? lt may be that the value of Whole Foods to Amazon is not so much the 460 shops it owns, but the records of which customers have purchased what.

Competition law appears to be the only way to address these imbalances of power. But it is clumsy. For one thing, it is very slow compared to the pace of change within the digital economy. By the time a problem has been addressed and remedied it may have vanished in the marketplace, to be replaced by new abuses of power. But there is a deeper conceptual problem, too. Competition law as presently interpreted deals with financial disadvantage to consumers and this is not obvious when the users of these services don’ t pay for them. The users of their services are not their customers. That would be the people who buy advertising from them-and Facebook and Google, the two virtual giants, dominate digital advertising to the disadvantage of all other media and entertainment companies.

The product they’ re selling is data, and we, the users, convert our lives to data for the benefit of the digital giants. Just as some ants farm the bugs called aphids for the honeydew they produce when they feed, so Google farms us for the data that our digital lives yield. Ants keep predatory insects away from where their aphids feed, Gmail keps the spammers out of our inboxes. t doesn’ t feel like a human or democratic relationship, even if both sides benefit.

Text 4
To combat the trap of putting a premium on being busy, Cal Newport, author of Deep work: Rules for Focused Success in a Distracted world, recommends building a habit of “deep work” the ability to focus without distraction.

There are a number of approaches to mastering the art of deep work-be it lengthy retreats dedicated to a specific task; developing a daily ritual; or taking a" journalistic approach to seizing moments of deep work when you can throughout the day. Whichever approach, the key is to determine your length of focus time and stick to it.

Newport also recommends “deep scheduling” to combat onstant interruptions and get more done in less time. “At any given point, I should have deep work scheduled for roughly the next month. Once on the calendar I protect this time like Iwould a doctor’s appointment or important meeting”, he writes.

Another approach to getting more done in less time is to rethink how you priritie your day -in particular how we craft our to-do list. Tim Harford, author of Messy. The Power of Disorder to Transform Our Lives, points to a study in the early 1980s that divided undergraduate into two groups:some were advised to set out monthly goals and study actvities, others were told to plan activities and goals in much more detail, day by day.

While the researchers assumed that the well-structured daily plans would be most effective when it came to the execution of tasks, they were wrong:the detailed daily plans demotivated students. Harford argues that inevitable distractions often render the daily to-do list ineffective, while leaving room for improvisation in such a list can reap the best results.

In order to make the most of our focus and energy. We also need to embrace downtime, or as Newport suggests,"‘be lazy."

“dleness is not just a vacation, an indulgence or a vice;it is as indispensable to be brain as Vitamin D is to the body..ilenesis,paradoxically, necessary to getting any work done,“he argues.

Srini Pillay,an assistant professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical Schoo,believs this counter-intuitive link between downtime and productivity may be due to the way our brains operate When our brains switch between being focused and unfocused on a task,they tend to be more efficient.

“What people don’ t realise is that in order to complete these tasks they need to use both the focus and unfocus circuits in their brain”. says Pillay.
